let's get a a closeup look at just how
bad it is in hospitals we can speak now
to Dr Hassan Abu sit who's a plastic and
reconstructive surgeon who's treating
the wounded at Al shiffer Hospital in
Gaza joins me live from there now doctor
thanks for joining us and taking the
time out to speak to us uh you're at Al
shiffer as I say tell us how big that
hospital is how many patients there are
there and and just what you're
seeing the hospital's uh pre-war bed
capacity was is around 600 700 as a push
the hospital now has around 1,900
wounded and so these extra wounded are
in trolleys on mattresses in the floors
in the corridors in the emergency
department everywhere that we can make
space for them we have in the
outpatients Departments we've created
space in addition there's 150 patients
on ventilators with critical
injuries and after each air raid the
operating room the the reception area of
the operating rooms is just there are
bodies on the floor waiting to get into
the operating rooms wounded from the
latest air strike and then you clear
that and then there's another air strike
and then you start all over again and
it's completely just it is unremitting
uh in addition there's around 50,000
people who sought refuge in the in the
grounds of the hospital
Andor just repeat that just one did you
say 50,000
,000 yes ,000 50,000 they live in the
grounds which is the grounds of the the
hospital has become a like a tented City
uh they also live in the corridors on
the
stairwells uh uh in the lobbies of the
of the different hospital buildings in
chiffer
compound and Doctor you are a plastic
and you're a plastic and reconstructor
surgeon what kind of injuries are you
seeing what kind of injuries are you
dealing
with we're seeing Burns uh we deal with
Burns uh over the last few days we've
seen increasing numbers of phosphorus
Burns uh today I had a a young child
with phosphorus Burns that we were
treating um we are seeing burns from the
inary component of a lot of these blasts
we have over 100 patients with burn RS
more than 40% of their
bodies uh um we have limb injuries we
have facial injuries really traumatic
disfiguring facial injuries debilitating
limb injuries this morning I had to do
an amputation on the foot of a a
9-year-old girl uh and I had to do a
reconstruction on a one-year-old boy's
foot this is our work on a daily basis
between 12 and 15 cases every day uh uh
and we are barely scratching the surface
of what needs to be done as you're as
you said in your introduction there're
now
20,000 wounded gaza's whole bed capacity
uh was 2 and a half thousand before the
war you can imagine what kind of tsunami
of injuries that's completely
overwhelmed the health system which is
still being denied any meaningful
Aid you talk about the burns phosphorus
Burns white phosphorus of course
is not permitted in
Warfare so is butchering 3,000 children
they seem to be happy to do that
regardless and so I mean I was here
during the 2008 2009 War when the
Israelis used phosphorus a much more uh
widespread way and you remember the gold
stone uh investigation and the gold
stone Report with regards to the use of
phosphorus the Israelis yet
Again boyed by a sense of impunity that
they've received from the visiting
Western leaders and the Silence of the
International Community really do not
care about international law about what
constitutes a war crime what
are weapons that that are banned under
international law all of these things
have been thrown out the book because
there's complete and unconditional
support from Western
given the lack of medical supplies how
are you how are you actually treating
people how are you providing
anesthetic so there are times when the
numbers are so overwhelming that there's
not enough anesthetic Technic and
anesthetic doctors and so we we resort
to using ketamine ketamine is a very old
uh drug that used to be used in wars and
now is used just in for by vets uh and
we're using that because it allows the
surgeon to administer the the anesthetic
and operate at the same
time and uh uh you know when when 50 60
70 patients come at the same time and a
lot of them need to go immediately to
the operating room then you do that
because there's no other option
otherwise they'll bleed
out uh doctor you're doing fantastic
work we do appreciate you joining us Dr
gasan Al s all we can hear is ambulances
ambulance aren in the background uh your
work is ongoing thank you